# [LilURL](http://lilurl.dev)
A URL shortener written in NodeJS and VueJS


## How to Build Locally
1. Clone the repo
2. Setting up the environment

    This application uses the [npm package dotenv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv) to read in environment variables from a file called `.env`. In the root directory of the repo, create a file called `.env` and fill it with the following:

    ```
    MONGODB_URI=mongo/urls
    NODE_ENV=development
    PORT=3000
    ```

3. Build the Docker containers

    Assuming you have Docker and Docker-Compose installed and properly configured on your machine: `docker-compose build`

4. Run the containers

    `docker-compose up`

The server should now be accessible on your machine via `http://localhost:3000`. Note that the two containers communicate with eachother using the names specified in `docker-compose.yaml` (which is why the `MONOGDB_URI` starts with mongo).


## Motivation
The idea behind this project was twofold: try out Javascript for the first time in a few years and get over my fear of Front End work. My main focus at my current job at [Hopjump](https://hopjump.com/) is DevOps. My day is mainly split between infrastructure (Kubernetes, AWS, Docker, Linux networking, etc) and backend engineering (Python). I have avoided doing any Front End work for the longest time becaue I decided that I was "bad at design" and "didn't have an eye for it". While those things may be true, I still believe that it is a skill that can be learned.

Let me be the first to say that this was a rough first pass and I am still absolutely learning. I spent hours slaving over the CSS (custom, no bootstrap here!) trying to make everything look right, and in the process I demystified certain aspects of the tool.

## What I Learned
This project let me touch tools and languages that I either had never used before, or hadn't used in years (I will leave a list below and expand here). Initially I was using React for the Front End but then realized how overkill that was going to be for such a small site. Switching to Vue really simplified my whole workflow and was overall much easier to manage / use. Express was incredibly easy to work with and made writing up a simple API a breeze. The only thing really missing that I would like is typing (but TypeScript is for another day). There is nothing particularily special about NPM / Yarn but they do have their quirks. I like the way that dependencies are managed in `package(-lock).json`. 

And of course CSS... boy was this a wild ride. I still haven't caught the "Front End bug" because I find CSS such a pain to work with. When I first began I had to try a million different things and it seemed like every time I changed one style it would break another. Slowly I started understanding how everything fit together (thank you flexbox) and it started coming more naturally. I was still somewhat struggling by the end, but it made it clear that it is just another skill I need to practice and learn.

- Vue
- Express
- NPM / Yarn
- CSS


# For the Future
There are plenty of other features that I have considered building, but don't have the time to get to right away. I am going to drop of list of them here for future reference / food for thought. Note that the backend to support these features is already build out, the Front End just needs an update to display the info.
1. Users
    
    I would love to create a system that would allow a user to register / log in to the site. If they register and log in they would get access to the other features below. If you were not logged in you would only have the ability to create short links with random IDs (might even consider adding a TTL to links created by non-registered users).
2. List View

    If you are a user that is logged in, you should be able to go to a new page that shows all of the shortened URLs that you have created. This can act as a sort of homepage or jump off for you to get to all of your favorite sites.

3. Custom ID

    If a user is logged in, they should be able to create a LilURL with a custom ID rather than an autogenerated one.
